                                                                MACHINE LEARNING
                                                                 ASSIGNMENT – 2


1. Movie Recommendation systems are an example of:
i) Classification
ii) Clustering
iii) Regression
 Options:
a) 2 Only
b) 1 and 2
c) 1 and 3
d) 2 and 3
Answer: a) 2 Only

2. Sentiment Analysis is an example of:
i) Regression
ii) Classification
iii) Clustering
iv) Reinforcement 
Options:
a) 1 Only
b) 1 and 2
c) 1 and 3
d) 1, 2 and 4
Answer: d) 1, 2 and 4

3. Can decision trees be used for performing clustering?
a) True
b) False
Answer: a) True

4. Which of the following is the most appropriate strategy for data cleaning before performing clustering
analysis, given less than desirable number of data points:
i) Capping and flooring of variables
ii) Removal of outliers
Options:
a) 1 only
b) 2 only
c) 1 and 2
d) None of the above
Answer: a) 1 only

5. What is the minimum no. of variables/ features required to perform clustering?
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3
Answer: b) 1

6. For two runs of K-Mean clustering is it expected to get same clustering results?
a) Yes
b) No
Answer: b) No

7. Is it possible that Assignment of observations to clusters does not change between successive
iterations in K-Means?
a) Yes
b) No
c) Can't say
d) None of these
Answer: a) Yes

8. Which of the following can act as possible termination conditions in K-Means?
i) For a fixed number of iterations.
ii) Assignment of observations to clusters does not change between iterations. Except for cases 
witha bad local minimum.
iii) Centroids do not change between successive iterations.
iv) Terminate when RSS falls below a threshold.
Options:
a) 1, 3 and 4
b) 1, 2 and 3
c) 1, 2 and 4
d) All of the above
Answer: d) All of the above

9. Incorrect Question

10. Which of the following algorithms is most sensitive to outliers?
a) K-means clustering algorithm
b) K-medians clustering algorithm
c) K-modes clustering algorithm
d) K-medoids clustering algorithm
Answer: a) K-means clustering algorithm

11. How can Clustering (Unsupervised Learning) be used to improve the accuracy of Linear Regression
model (Supervised Learning):
i) Creating different models for different cluster groups.
ii) Creating an input feature for cluster ids as an ordinal variable.
iii) Creating an input feature for cluster centroids as a continuous variable.
iv) Creating an input feature for cluster size as a continuous variable.
Options:
a) 1 only
b) 2 only
c) 3 and 4
d) All of the above
Answer: d) All of the above

12. What could be the possible reason(s) for producing two different dendrograms using agglomerative
clustering algorithms for the same dataset?
a) Proximity function used
b) of data points used
c) of variables used
d) All of the above
Answer: d) All of the above

13. Is K sensitive to outliers?
Answer: Yes. The k-means algorithm updates the cluster centers by taking the average of all the data points that are closer to each cluster center. When all the points are packed nicely together, the mean makes sense. However, when you have outliers, this can affect the average calculation of the whole cluster. As a result, this will push your cluster center closer to the outlier.

14. Why is K means better?
Answer: K-means is the simplest to implement and run. Easy to understand. Other clustering algorithms with better features tend to be more expensive. In this case, k-means becomes a great solution for pre-clustering, reducing the space into disjoint smaller sub-spaces where other clustering algorithms can be applied.

15. Is K means a deterministic algorithm?
Answer: No, the k-means clustering is based on a non-deterministic algorithm. This means that running the algorithm several times on the same data, could give different results. The non-deterministic nature of K-Means is due to its random selection of data points as initial centroids. The key idea of the algorithm is to select data points which belong to dense regions and which are adequately separated in feature space as the initial centroids.