                                                            Worksheet-3 
                                                          MACHINE LEARNING
1. Which of the following is an application of clustering?
a. Biological network analysis
b. Market trend prediction
c. Topic modeling
d. All of the above
Answer: d. All of the above

2. On which data type, we cannot perform cluster analysis?
a. Time series data
b. Text data
c. Multimedia data
d. None
Answer: d. None

3. Netflix’s movie recommendation system uses
a. Supervised learning
b. Unsupervised learning
c. Reinforcement learning and Unsupervised learning
d. All of the above
Answer: c. Reinforcement learning and Unsupervised learning

4. The final output of Hierarchical clustering is
a. The number of cluster centroids
b. The tree representing how close the data points are to each other
c. A map defining the similar data points into individual groups
d. All of the above
Answer:  b. The tree representing how close the data points are to each other

5. Which of the step is not required for K-means clustering?
a. A distance metric
b. Initial number of clusters
c. Initial guess as to cluster centroids
d. None
Answer: d. None

6. Which is the following is wrong?
a. k-means clustering is a vector quantization method
b. k-means clustering tries to group n observations into k clusters
c. k-nearest neighbour is same as k-means
d. None
Answer: c. k-nearest neighbour is same as k-means

7. Which of the following metrics, do we have for finding dissimilarity between two clusters in 
hierarchical clustering?
i. Single-link
ii. Complete-link
iii. Average-link 
Options:
a.1 and 2
b. 1 and 3
c. 2 and 3
d. 1, 2 and 3
Answer: d. 1, 2 and 3

8. Which of the following are true?
i. Clustering analysis is negatively affected by multicollinearity of features
ii. Clustering analysis is negatively affected by heteroscedasticity
Options:
a. 1 only
b. 2 only
c. 1 and 2
d. None of them
Answer: a. 1 only

9. If you draw a horizontal line on y-axis for y=2. What will be the number of clusters 
formed?
a. 2
b. 4
c. 3
d. 5
Answer: a. 2

10. For which of the following tasks might clustering be a suitable approach?
a.Given sales data from a large number of products in a supermarket, estimate future sales for each 
of these products.
b.Given a database of information about your users, automatically group them into different market 
segments.
c. Predicting whether stock price of a company will increase tomorrow.
d. Given historical weather records, predict if tomorrow's weather will be sunny or rainy.
Answer: b.Given a database of information about your users, automatically group them into different market 
segments.

11. Which of the following clustering representations and dendrogram depicts the use of MIN or Single link 
proximity function in hierarchical clustering:
Answer: a

12. Which of the following clustering representations and dendrogram depicts the use of MAX or Complete 
link proximity function in hierarchical clustering.
Answer: b

13. What is the importance of clustering?
Answer: Clustering plays an important role to draw insights from unlabeled data. It classifies the data in similar groups which improves various business decisions by providing a meta understanding.
Clustering can also be used for anomaly detection.

14. How can I improve my clustering performance?
Answer: Clustering algorithm can be significantly improved by using a better initialization technique, and by repeating the algorithm.
When the data has overlapping clusters, it can improve the results of the initialization technique.
When the data has well separated clusters, the performance depends completely on the goodness of the initialization.