                                                                WORKSHEET - 1
                                                                    SQL


1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create B) Update
C) Delete D) ALTER

Answer: A) Create D) ALTER

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update B) Delete
C) Select D) Drop

Answer: A) Update B) Delete C) Select

3.Full form of SQL is:
A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
C) Simple Query Language D) None of them

Answer: B) Structured Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.

Answer: B) Data Definition Language

5.DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these

Answer: A) Data Manipulation Language

6.Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C floattype?
A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them

Answer: C) Create table A (B int,C float)

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them

Answer:  B) Alter Table A ADD D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
C) Delete D from A D) None of them

Answer: B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int

Answer: D) Alter table A Column D float to int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following 
statements we can do it?
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them

Answer: A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B

11. What is data-warehouse?

Answer : A data warehouse may be a sort of data management system that's designed to enable and support business intelligence (BI) activities, especially analytics. 
Data warehouses are solely intended to perform queries and analysis and sometimes contain large amounts of historical data.

It includes 
==> A relational database to store and manage data.

==> An extraction, loading, and transformation (ELT) solution for preparing the information(data) for analysis.

==> Statistical analysis, reporting, and data processing capabilities.

==> Client analysis tools for visualizing and presenting data to business users.

==> Other, more sophisticated analytical applications that generate actionable information by applying data science and AI algorithms

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

OLAP: Online Analytical Processing, a category of software tools which provide analysis of data for business decisions.
OLAP systems allow users to analyze database information from multiple database systems at one time.
The primary objective is data analysis and not data processing.


OLTP: Online transaction processing shortly known as OLTP supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture. 
OLTP administers day to day transaction of an organization.
The primary objective is data processing and not data analysis


Differences between OLTP and OLAP are:

S.No               OLTP                                                                 OLAP

1.    Online Transaction Processing is abbreviated as OLTP                  Online Analytical Processing is abbreviated as OLAP

2.    OLTP administers day to day transaction of an organization            OLAP systems allow users to research database information
                                                                            from multiple database systems at just one occasion
                                                                            
3.    The primary objective is data processing and not data analysis        The primary objective is data analysis and not processing

4.    OLTP supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier           A category of software tools which give analysis of 
      architecture.                                                         knowledge for business decisions. 
      
5.    Consists of historical data from various Databases.                   Consists only operational current data.

6.    It is subject oriented. Used for Data Mining, Analytics,              It is application oriented. Used for business tasks.
      Decision making,etc  
      
7.    The data is used in planning, problem solving and decision            The data is used to perform day to day fundamental 
      making.                                                               operations. 
      
8.    It only need backup from time to time as compared to OLTP.            Backup and recovery process is maintained religiously.

9.    Large amount of data is stored typically in TB, PB                    The size of the data is relatively small as the historical data 
                                                                            is archived. For ex MB, GB.
                                                                            
10.   Relatively slow as the amount of data involved is large.              Very Fast as the queries operate on 5% of the data.

Example : ATM center                                                        Example : year-over-year financial performance                                                    
                                                                                

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?

Answer : There are four Characteristics of data-warehouse. They are :-

1.Subject Oriented : A data warehouse is usually a subject oriented because it delivers information a few theme rather than organization’s current operations. It is often achieved on specific theme. These themes are often sales, distributions, marketing etc.

2. Integrated : A data warehouse is built by integrating data from various sources of data such that a mainframe and a relational database.
Integration means founding a shared entity to scale the all similar data from the different databases. It is almost like the subject orientation that made during a consistent format. It should resolve the issues and make the disparate problem. It's a finite number of procedures for issues like naming conventions, conflicts, units of measure, inconsistent values. It manages a special subject associated with warehouse information.

3.Time Variant : In this characteristic, data is maintained via different intervals of your time like weekly, monthly, or annually etc. It founds various deadline which are structured between the massive datasets and are held in online transaction process (OLTP). The deadlines for data warehouse is wide-ranged than that of operational systems.

4.Non-Volatile : As the name defines the info resided in data warehouse is permanent. It also means data isn't erased or deleted when new data is inserted.It encompasses the high quantity of data that enters into change within the selected quantity on logical business. It enumerates the analysis in the warehouse technologies.Non-volatility will make people understand what has occurred. It makes a clear sense of analysis that is done.


14.  What is Star-Schema?

Answer : In data warehousing and business intelligence (BI), a star schema is the simplest form of a dimensional model, in which data is organized into facts and dimensions.  A fact is an event that is counted or measured, such as a sale or login.  A dimension contains reference information about the fact, such as date, product, or customer. A star schema is diagramed by surrounding each fact with its associated dimensions. The resulting diagram resembles a star. This schema is widely used to develop or build a data warehouse and dimensional data marts. 


15. What do you mean by SETL?

Answer : SETL which means SET Language is a very high-level programming language based on the mathematical theory of sets. 

It is an interpreted language with a syntax that is loosely C-like and in many cases similar to Perl. It is case-insensitive.

It has benefits such as Rapid Development,Standardized Operations and Non-proprietary.
